---
layout: blog
title: Previous record
tags: competition, tournament, record
---
My record so far, just for the sake of it: I’m 4-3 with the gi and 2-1 in no-gi — half of those wins by submission.

My first ever match was against Jan, who is now a training partner and good friend of mine. I missed my takedown and gave him the pass and then it was hell. He mounted me several times and attempted a lot of armbars. I think I lost something like 12–0.

The second one was in an open class against a former training partner. It was pretty even until he mounted me in the last minute and blocked me.

My third match was in the french championship no-gi. I jumped guard and locked a triangle, he escaped but I locked in another one a bit later and got the tap. The second round of that tournament was a really nice match, fairly competitive. I got taken down and we moved quite a lot from there, but without any of us abble to even attempt a serious submission. I lost 4-2 but had 4 advantages to zero.

The fifth and last before the french eastern trials was for the french championship with gi, and it sucked. I missed my takedown, the opponent took sidecontrol and then stalled for 5 minutes. At one point he stood up and I got his back but couldn’t remember a takedown, which still angers me to that day. 

All of it considered, I basically loose whenever I get taken down or fail my guard jump — and I’m not the only one, [according to this study](http://bishopbjj.files.wordpress.com/2012/12/2012-world-jiu-jitsu-case-study.pdf).