---
layout: blog
title: Fight Factory London
categories: explorations
tags: Fight Factory, London, travel, BJJ Globetrotter, half guard
cover: ff-london.png
---
Another dash to London, another academy visit. I dropped by Fight Factory in London this time, another checkmat affiliate supervised by Luiz Ribeiro.

I was told to come in early but I haven’t mastered the art of timely moving around the city yet. After a few canceled metros and a re-route, i showed up 15 minutes late and to my surprise they were already done with warm-up and knee-deep into some half guard sweeping explanations.

i waited at the counter, listening to the technique. The explanation seemed like it would never end; after at least ten minutes, a brown belt eventually came up to me and inquired what i wanted. He then told Luiz about me who gave him the thumbs up. I changed in a hurry, joined the mat… and of course everybody was already paired up. 

The same brown belt motioned me to go shake Luiz’s hand but as I came up to him, he started correcting a pair of white belts and that took ages again. When he was eventually done, he didn’t even shake my hand but just told me to pair up somewhere. Duh.

I can’t help but say this was extremely rude. Of course I was late, so I shut the fuck up about it, but man. The students however were all very nice and helpful. We practiced a serie of half guard sweeps and counters and lined up for the rolls. I got paired up with a white belt and 3 blue belts, all of whom were very pleasant to roll with. Technical, not overly aggressive or passive, just my type.

I left apologizing again for being late and asked if I had to pay anything, but Luiz (again mostly grunting instead of speaking) signified me it was fine. I’d probably need to check back there and _not_ be late to see if it makes  any difference, but I’m not sure I will.