---
layout: blog
title: Day Four
---
# Daniel Bertina: Pressure Half Guard Pass

The initial position is a half guard with knee shield. Say the right leg is trapped.

## Regular Smash Pass

Weave the right hand over the knee shield andon the leg below and pin the knees using my own body weight. The left arm grabs the collar on the open side and goes into a T-Rex arm for protection, although I have to be aware of wrist locks. The head goeson the closedside shoulder or under the arm pit and starts pushing, ideally to flatten the opponent out.

figure

Then sprawl, hard. My knees should align with the guarder. This should free one leg, which is enough to windshield wipe the other oneall the while my head flattens him out by pushing into his armpit. Once both leg are cleared, the usual transitions to side control can start.

## Weak Side Pass

Sometimes the knee shield just won't drop. In that case,the right hand takesapants grip outside of the shield, the left one grabs the knee. Get on the toes, lift his knee and turn him on the other side, aka. his "white belt side". From there the pass is straight forward.

## Big Ass Pressure Pass

Instead of turning him completely to his weak side, stop in the middle. Bring the trapped knee slightly forward onto the abdomen, grab the left hand sleeve and the collar and *presao*. He should feel miserable there.

At that point, he'll really try to get the fuck out. He can push the kneeto either side but that gives me mountor side control / arm bar. His best bet is to push the knee back; in that case, the right hand cross grips his collar and I give in to his pull to make him sit up. Use the control on the arm to stepto the back. There is a straight transition to a bow and arrow choke.


# Daniel Marques: Defending The Turtle

General rule is feet flat, elbows out but tight to the body. The pressure will be either on the shoulders or on the hips; whatever part is pressure free can move around.

At that point I was starting to have a little information overload so my notes become less precise. To get away from the turtle,the general idea was  to roll backwards with a leg behind the opponent, making him fall over during the roll. It works best with a grip, on the far side knee or on the wrist.


# David George: Leglocks

A nogi class on how to attack the legs when the guarder plays DLR. The base position starts with placing the leg in a deep DLR position and then squat down to lock it there. The hooked leg then turns outwards with the shin deep into the backof the knee.

The easiest attacks start with locking a figure four with the leg and diving on the second leg, hugging it. The figure four does a slight calf slicer which can be intensified by moving the figure four. Meanwhile the second leg is open to toe-holds, knee bars and heel hooks.

The other attack that can also be chained after the first one is to invert under the DLR leg, flattening the opponent on his belly. Reaching to his hips/shoulders slices the calf.