# David George, DRL guard
Entry to the DLR from closed guard, opponent stands up. Mainiain closed guar, switch one foot to the hips, then the other one, keeping the hips elevated. Push on the hips with double sleve grip, "look at the clock". Put one foot away to create an angle, mainain pressure with other leg and arm. When Ready, colpase the leg which makes him step forward, put in DLR hook.

From there, keep the far side grip and grab the close side heel, pull towards the outside and work on maintaining distance. If the hook gets pressured off, push the opponent away:

1. Either with the single leg on the hip
2. or with 2 legs on the hip*3. or bring the DLR hook to the shoulder and push from there.

If he drags the leg inside his legs to haf guard, stomp on the floor to prevent the leg from stretching. From there the goal is o lift him with the DLR hook. Either alon, or by brining the second foot as a support for the hook. Additionnaly, release the sleeve nzd grab the collar to unbalance.

To sweep, push his leg with the far side leg, the DLR hook drops to the ground. The far side grip on the sleeve punches through under his close side leg, release the heel and grab my own wrist with a figure 4. On the occasion, release the figure 4 and grap the wrist/sleeve with close side hand, and the far side hand grips the far side collar. From there, roll towards the far side to make him collapse. From there, pass. If he doesnt rll, mostly by pinning his knees.

From this setup, if he breaks the grip and frees his hand, move to a sit up guard, wrapping his leg with the close side arm. Switch the hips to force him falling backwards or do a technical stand up.


# Oli Geddes: Kimura Grip

For a solid figure 4 grip, turn the wrists like a motorcycle, the wrists that his on my wrist very closde o the hand. the hand on his wrist pins his hand on hiw chest, arms stretched out. The basic position is lying side by side, upside down.

*add illustration**

## Options without getting up

Bring the legs towards his head. if he's looking up, bring one leg under his heads, the other one above. Cross the ankles but dont point the heels o the outside, just pinch the knees for a dirty choke.

If he gabble grips, bring the top foot inside his elbow and sprawl it open to transition to the crucifix. From there, release the top arm and slide around his throart for a one handed choke. the other arm has to maintian pressure on the "free" arm.

## Kimura

From the initial position, knee up to the regular kimura. Instead of just yanking on the arm, adjust the firegu 4 grip. The wrist on my own arm slides up a little and the hand on his arm slides slightly aound his arm. From there, pull towards the open side, up. Regrab the figure 4 and finish the kimura. 90° is best but maks it easier for him to stretch his arm, so a little less than 90° is better.

## When the kimura isn't there

Switch to an arm bar, without passing the leg across the chest at first. Slide one arm in to some kind of bicep slicer to make him release the grp and fnish the arm bar.

If the arm bar isn't there, bring the chest-foot across the chest into the regular armbar position, but turn the foot towards his hip to create a hook. Slide the head lg under his head and use that as a lever to make hi roll to his side, on the kimura grip. From there, at pretty much the same time, get the full hooks in or a body triangle and slight release the kimura grip to get a seatbelt. Choke at will.

From the kimura position with a sloid grip, you end up either with an arm bar or the back because you can just switch from one to the other.
