# Bernardo Faria Seminar notes

## On bottom

### Pulling half guard

From standing, put both hands on the collar, same side. Side step in the direction of that collar, then sit back down, yanking on the collar to throw the oppononet almost over. Grab a half guard. From there, either come up to a single leg by spinning to the outside, or transition to a deep half guard by spinning insid
The oint ism dont pull a shitty half guard where the opponent already has a knee cut or something like that.

### Half guard frame

Knee shield up with the left leg, left arm has a grip on the cross colar, the elbow against the opponents shoulder and over the knee, to create a strong frame. The right hand frames on the bicep. Pull the opponent down so he can't sprawl.

### Half Guard sweeps

From the previous position, kick the left leg free and feed the left arm behind the opponents back. Grab down at the waist, not the shoulder. The head stays in front all the time, we're not taking the back.

Open the far side lapel with your right hand, and feed it between the opponents leg to your left hand. Pull tight. It's usually hard to get the lapel with the left hand, so shrimp away once, towards he back of your opponent, to make it easier.

Once you have the lapel tight, let go of the half guard hooks and go to your knees. From there, use one of the sweeps:

1. Grab the far knee with your right hand and drive forward> End in a pressure passing style position.
2. If the knee is too far awym do the same but grab the pants instead. This usually requires driving forward longer.
3. If the opponent turns to you and puts his chest on your back, lift your head and sweep towards your back.
4. If the uses a wizzer, grab his right arm and pull hard on it while driving forward. This ends up being more a static sweep than a roll forward.

### Deep half guard

If the opponent blocks your leg from kicking through in half guard, roll under towards a deep half. From there, Bernardo puts his safe hand on the controlled leg, the one over your chest. He switches to the other side on to prevent the opponent from stepping over his head.

Then, the right hand opens the opponents lapel, and the left hand grabs the lapel *under* the opponents left leg. Then the left hand switches to the other hip. From there, let go of the deep half hooks and bridge like you're escaping mount fo a simple sweep.

## On top

### Over under pass

Start kneeling, sitting on the opponents left side foot. The left arm is over the opponents knee, grabing the waist, elbow closed. The right hand is under the opponents left leg, and same thing, grab the waist and close the elbow to avoid hip movement. From there, start putting on the pressure by driving your left shoulder into his ribs, almost standing up.

Walk a little to the outside until you can stretch the opponents right leg. Then walk by counter clock wise to keep control of the leg. From there, step over with your right leg and into side control. Keep walking into his legs to turn kim away from you. Maintain shoulder pressure and slide into normal side control.

### Over under knee bar

Same starting position, walk to the outside to stretch the leg and the back in. From there, instead of just holding the leg, hug it very hard with your right arm and try to turn his foot towards the sinde. Then your inside foot comes triangling over your outside foot, and drop down for a knee bar.

### Choke from side control

From side control on the left opponents right side, get your own far side lapel (right) in your right hand, discreetly. Punch through his far side elboz to feed the lapel over it. Grab it with your right hand, behind his neck.
Thenm put your right hand on the ma next to his hip, and start walking backwards on your knees. Your right hand prevents him from turning towards you.
Then, put your head away from his chest and on the mat where your right hand was and start choking with your shoulder. If it's not enough, grab the lapel with your right hand two, and squeeze harder.

## Omoplata

Bernardo can atack the omoplata from everywhere. He has 2 main options: he can go to closed guard, and from there roll on his shoulders towards a leg; or from anywhere, he will throw his leg over the arm and catch his shin with his hand. The interesting thing is, he never lets go from there. He keeps control, and even if the other doesnt move, he advances bit by bit.

At the start, he will be lying down, with his left hand controling the belt and the right hand controlling the sleeve. From there, he prevents his enemy from rolling over and works to ge control of their lapel under the far arm pit. Then, he strecthes his legs, like, really flat, and then hips out to flaten his opponent. And finishes the omoplata.

If the opponent rolls over, his first choice is to roll along and then finish it. But if he can't roll, he will turn and sit on the opponents chest, keeping a very tight control on his arm and focusing on the elbow. Then he can rll either way when the opponent reacts.
If the opponent turns towards him, he will jump over his opponent, and then roll forward again to the fnish.
